---
title: "Connectome based Predictive Modeling"
excerpt: "ADHD의 부주의성과 충동성을 예측하는 모델링 알고리즘"
permalink: /projects/2024-08-03-project-1/
layout: single
classes: wide
---



### *연구배경:

모든 정신의학적 

Studies have persistently investigated brain regions in ADHD patients that show abnormalities compared to normal controls. However, due to diverse cognitive dysfunctions and related neural correlates in ADHD, results are non-converging showing lack of reliability. To resolve this problem computational models have been developed incorporating related brain regions and investigating relationships with relevant behaviors or symptoms with increased robustness. Yet, few models predict each subjects’ primary symptoms of ADHD which takes individuality into account.
Methods: Using resting state brain scans of 299 children with and without ADHD, we constructed a model by using CPM(Connectome based Predictive Modeling) to predict individual differences in inattentive and hyperactive symptom severity. In addition, we generalized each of these two models to other neuropsychological test batteries to identify shared components. 
Results: Using leave-one-subject-out CPM, both inattentive and hyperactive models showed significant predictive power with generalization to novel individuals. We found predictive functional networks of inattentive and hyperactive phenotype that appear in widespread patterns across the whole-brain. Among 4 sets of neuropsychological tests, both inattentive and hyperactive model generalized to ATA-vision and Stroop tests. This indicates that primary symptoms of ADHD that are reflected in selected functional brain features involve cognitive measurements of these two neuropsychological tests. 
Conclusions: Functional connections of an individual contain information about two primary symptoms or phenotypes of ADHD and share components with cognitive measures from certain types of neuropsychological test batteries which are ATA-vision and Stroop test.

##### 